In Congress, July 4, 1776

The unanimous Declaration of the thirteen united States of America. When in the course of human events it becomes necessary for one people to break the political ties that have connected them with another, and to assume among the powers of the earth the separate and equal position to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature’s God entitle them, respect for the opinions of mankind requires that they declare the causes which lead them to separation.

We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal, that they are given by their Creator certain unalienable Rights, including Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness. To secure these rights, governments are established among people, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. Whenever any government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it and to establish a new government that will best ensure their safety and happiness.

Prudence dictates that long-established governments should not be changed for minor reasons, and experience shows that people are more likely to suffer while evils are tolerable than to abolish the systems they are used to. But when a long pattern of abuses reveals a design to impose absolute tyranny, it is the right and duty of the people to throw off such government and provide new safeguards.

The history of the present King of Great Britain is marked by repeated injuries and usurpations, all aimed at establishing tyranny over these States. To prove this, let facts be presented.

He has refused to approve laws necessary for the public good. He has obstructed justice and made judges dependent on his will. He has kept standing armies without consent and imposed taxes without representation. He has cut off trade, dissolved legislatures, and waged war against us.

In every stage of these oppressions we have petitioned for redress, but our petitions have been answered only with repeated injury. A ruler marked by tyranny is unfit to govern a free people.

Therefore, we declare that these United Colonies are free and independent states, absolved from allegiance to the British Crown. They have full power to levy war, conclude peace, form alliances, and establish commerce. With firm reliance on divine Providence, we pledge our lives, fortunes, and sacred honor.